Leahâ€™s research involves linking current syntactic theory with the
cognitive neuroscience of language. Current studies are probing the
processing units during language comprehension and testing whether
sentential processing aligns with the predictions of the Minimalist
Program proposed by Noam Chomsky. Specifically, behavioral studies have
been finding processing differences between relative clauses and
prepositional phrases, in that semantic content within clauses appears
to be encapsulated from surrounding content more so than the content of
a prepositional phrase. Since the Minimalist Program predicts that
clauses are distinct and complete linguistic units, these behavioral
findings are encouraging further research into the link between
linguistic theory and language comprehension.

Future studies are planned using electrophysiological and neuroimaging
techniques to pinpoint the time course and cortical regions implicated
in sentence comprehension. In addition to exploring language in the
general population, this research also hopes to recruit specific patient
populations to probe language comprehension in people with acquired
language disorders such as fluent and nonfluent aphasia, as well as
neurodegenerative diseases such as semantic dementia. The study of
language comprehension in patient populations can illuminate essential
language processing cortical regions and white matter tracts, as well as
potentially offer suggestions for language disorder interventions.

Students working with Leah would have opportunities to:

1\. Create stimuli, such as

-   The lakes with salmon are spawning
-   The lakes with salmon are deep

2\. Code experimental items into E-Prime, Matlab, or other software

3\. Independently collect behavioral data

4\. Assist in collection of EEG or MRI data

5\. Assist in data analysis and interpretation
